CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

This document provides guidelines for contributing to samples.

## Before you begin

### Sign our Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a
[Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about) (CLA).
You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution; this simply
gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as part of the
project.

If you or your current employer have already signed the Google CLA (even if it
was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it again.

Visit <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see your current agreements or to
sign a new one.

### Review our Community Guidelines

This project follows
[Google's Open Source Community Guidelines](https://opensource.google/conduct/).

### Review Terraform sample requirements, best practices, and code style

If you are submitting or reviewing a pull request, make sure that the sample
follows the rules for quality and consistency.

#### Code style

For samples that you add to the `terraform-docs-samples` GitHub repository,
make sure that they follow the style guidelines for Terraform described in the
[Effective samples style guide](https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/samples-style-guide/).

#### Other requirements and best practices

* (Required) Samples maintained in `terraform-docs-samples` must include only
  `resource` and `data` blocks. Don't include `module` blocks in your samples.

  Note: If you want to use a sample that contains `module`
  blocks, you can use the [Cloud Foundation Toolkit
  modules](https://g.co/dev/terraformfoundation).

* (Required) Don't create a `README` file for your sample.

* (Recommended) If a sample needs an API enabled, add the service to the
  [Test setup file](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/blob/main/test/setup/main.tf).

* (Recommened) If a sample adds a new directory, add code owners to the [CODEOWNERS
  file](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS).

* (Recommended) In each resource that has a `name` argument, include the `name`
  argument first in the resource block.

* (Recommended) For maintainability, don't include other-vendor resources.
   Multi-cloud isn't recommended in `terraform-docs-samples`. Only Google
   provider resources are  recommended. For example, `terraform-docs-samples`
   samples shouldn't have Azure or AWS resources. For multi-cloud samples,
   [create a blueprint](https://g.co/dev/terraformfoundation) instead.

* (Recommended) For simplicity and consistency, use `default` as the Terraform
  resource name when possible. The only time it isn't possible is if a single
  sample has multiple resources of the same type. They can't all have the same
  resource name. In this case, use what makes sense for your sample.

* (Recommended) If your sample enables an API, add
  `disable_on_destroy = false` to prevent the API from being disabled when
  deleting the resources.

## Dependencies for testing

The following dependencies must be installed on the development system:

- [Docker Engine][docker-engine]
- [Google Cloud SDK][google-cloud-sdk]
- [make]

Cloud Shell is recommended for development because these tools are pre-installed.

## Linting and Formatting

Files in the repository are linted or formatted to maintain a standard of quality and statically validated.
You can run this check locally:

```
cd terraform-docs-samples
```

```
make docker_test_lint
```

## Integration Testing

Integration tests are used to verify that the samples are actuatable
by Terraform. Tests are dynamically discovered based on directories in
repo root and executed using the [blueprint-test](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-foundation-toolkit/infra/blueprint-test) framework.

### Set up the Test Environment

The easiest way to test the samples are in isolated test projects. The
setup for projects are defined in [test/setup](./test/setup/)
directory.

To use this setup, you need to authenticate gcloud with an identity that has
Project Creator access on a folder and the Billing Account User role on a billing account.

1. Get you project's organization ID and folder ID:

   ```
   gcloud projects get-ancestors <YOUR_PROJECT_ID>
   ```

1. Get your project's billing ID by opening https://console.cloud.google.com/billing.


1. Set the following environment variables.

   ```
   export TF_VAR_org_id="your_org_id"
   ```

   ```
   export TF_VAR_folder_id="your_folder_id"
   ```

   ```
   export TF_VAR_billing_account="your_billing_account_id"
   ```

1. Ensure that you are locally authenticated using gcloud:

   ```
   gcloud auth application-default login
   ```

1. With these settings in place, you can prepare a test project using Docker:

   ```
   cd terraform-docs-samples
   ```

   ```
   make docker_test_prepare
   ```

Sample Output:

```
Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

project_ids = [
  "ci-tf-samples-0-c5ab",
  "ci-tf-samples-1-f344",
  "ci-tf-samples-2-b5a7",
  "ci-tf-samples-3-6eda",
]
...
```

### Noninteractive Execution

Run `make -s docker_test_sample SAMPLE=${SAMPLE_NAME}` to test a sample
noninteractively. This will initialize, apply, verify and destroy the
specified sample.

Example:
```
make -s docker_test_sample SAMPLE=storage_new_bucket
```

Sample output:

```
 make -s docker_test_sample SAMPLE=storage_new_bucket
go: downloading github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-foundation-toolkit/infra/blueprint-test v0.3.0
...
=== RUN   TestSamples
TestSamples terraform.go:216: Loading env vars from setup ../setup
...
2022/10/28 02:30:16 Running stage init
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket retry.go:91: terraform [init -upgrade=false]
...
2022/10/28 02:30:17 Running stage apply
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket retry.go:91: terraform [apply -input=false -auto-approve -lock=false]
...
2022/10/28 02:30:21 Running stage verify
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket cmd.go:103: Running terraform with args [plan -input=false -detailed-exitcode -lock=false]
...
2022/10/28 02:30:23 Running stage teardown
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket retry.go:91: terraform [destroy -auto-approve -input=false -lock=false]
...
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185: Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185:
--- PASS: TestSamples (17.12s)
    --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (13.95s)
PASS
ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     17.203s
```

### Interactive Execution

Interactive execution is useful if you want to iteratively test a sample
without destroying resources automatically.

1. Run `make docker_run` to start the testing Docker container in
   interactive mode and you should see the following prompt.

    Sample output:
    ```
    [root@... workspace]#
    ```

1. Navigate to the test directory `cd test/integration`.

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=init go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to initialize
    the sample to be tested. (Note: To reduce log verbosity, you can skip the `-v` option)

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=init go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    ...
    === RUN   TestSamples
    TestSamples 2022-10-28T02:24:48Z terraform.go:216: Loading env vars from setup ../setup
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket 2022-10-28T02:24:59Z command.go:185: Success! The configuration is valid.
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket 2022-10-28T02:24:59Z command.go:185:
    RUN_STAGE env var set to init
    Skipping stage apply
    RUN_STAGE env var set to init
    Skipping stage verify
    RUN_STAGE env var set to init
    Skipping stage teardown
    --- PASS: TestSamples (11.27s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (3.80s)
    ```

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=apply go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to apply
    the sample to be tested.

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=apply go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    === RUN   TestSamples
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185: Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
    ...
    RUN_STAGE env var set to apply
    Skipping stage verify
    RUN_STAGE env var set to apply
    Skipping stage teardown
    --- PASS: TestSamples (8.70s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (5.83s)
    PASS
    ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     8.784s
    ```

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=verify go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to verify
    the sample has been applied.

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=verify go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    === RUN   TestSamples
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185: No changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration.
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185:
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185: Terraform has compared your real infrastructure against your configuration
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185: and found no differences, so no changes are needed.
    2022/10/28 02:27:47 RUN_STAGE env var set to verify
    2022/10/28 02:27:47 Skipping stage teardown
    --- PASS: TestSamples (6.79s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (3.93s)
    PASS
    ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     6.864s
    ```

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=teardown go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to destroy
   resources created by the sample.

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=teardown go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    === RUN   TestSamples
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185:
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185: Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185:
    --- PASS: TestSamples (8.49s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (5.65s)
    PASS
    ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     8.563s
    ```

[docker-engine]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-engine
[google-cloud-sdk]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install
[make]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Make_(software)

Commit message:

docs: add explanation of SAMPLE value

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

This document provides guidelines for contributing to samples.

## Before you begin

### Sign our Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a
[Contributor License Agreement](https://cla.developers.google.com/about) (CLA).
You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution; this simply
gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as part of the
project.

If you or your current employer have already signed the Google CLA (even if it
was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it again.

Visit <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see your current agreements or to
sign a new one.

### Review our Community Guidelines

This project follows
[Google's Open Source Community Guidelines](https://opensource.google/conduct/).

### Review Terraform sample requirements, best practices, and code style

If you are submitting or reviewing a pull request, make sure that the sample
follows the rules for quality and consistency.

#### Code style

For samples that you add to the `terraform-docs-samples` GitHub repository,
make sure that they follow the style guidelines for Terraform described in the
[Effective samples style guide](https://googlecloudplatform.github.io/samples-style-guide/).

#### Other requirements and best practices

* (Required) Samples maintained in `terraform-docs-samples` must include only
  `resource` and `data` blocks. Don't include `module` blocks in your samples.

  Note: If you want to use a sample that contains `module`
  blocks, you can use the [Cloud Foundation Toolkit
  modules](https://g.co/dev/terraformfoundation).

* (Required) Don't create a `README` file for your sample.

* (Recommended) If a sample needs an API enabled, add the service to the
  [Test setup file](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/blob/main/test/setup/main.tf).

* (Recommened) If a sample adds a new directory, add code owners to the [CODEOWNERS
  file](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS).

* (Recommended) In each resource that has a `name` argument, include the `name`
  argument first in the resource block.

* (Recommended) For maintainability, don't include other-vendor resources.
   Multi-cloud isn't recommended in `terraform-docs-samples`. Only Google
   provider resources are  recommended. For example, `terraform-docs-samples`
   samples shouldn't have Azure or AWS resources. For multi-cloud samples,
   [create a blueprint](https://g.co/dev/terraformfoundation) instead.

* (Recommended) For simplicity and consistency, use `default` as the Terraform
  resource name when possible. The only time it isn't possible is if a single
  sample has multiple resources of the same type. They can't all have the same
  resource name. In this case, use what makes sense for your sample.

* (Recommended) If your sample enables an API, add
  `disable_on_destroy = false` to prevent the API from being disabled when
  deleting the resources.

## Dependencies for testing

The following dependencies must be installed on the development system:

- [Docker Engine][docker-engine]
- [Google Cloud SDK][google-cloud-sdk]
- [make]

Cloud Shell is recommended for development because these tools are pre-installed.

## Linting and Formatting

Files in the repository are linted or formatted to maintain a standard of quality and statically validated.
You can run this check locally:

```
cd terraform-docs-samples
```

```
make docker_test_lint
```

## Integration Testing

Integration tests are used to verify that the samples are actuatable
by Terraform. Tests are dynamically discovered based on directories in
repo root and executed using the [blueprint-test](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-foundation-toolkit/infra/blueprint-test) framework.

### Set up the Test Environment

The easiest way to test the samples are in isolated test projects. The
setup for projects are defined in [test/setup](./test/setup/)
directory.

To use this setup, you need to authenticate gcloud with an identity that has
Project Creator access on a folder and the Billing Account User role on a billing account.

1. Get you project's organization ID and folder ID:

   ```
   gcloud projects get-ancestors <YOUR_PROJECT_ID>
   ```

1. Get your project's billing ID by opening https://console.cloud.google.com/billing.


1. Set the following environment variables.

   ```
   export TF_VAR_org_id="your_org_id"
   ```

   ```
   export TF_VAR_folder_id="your_folder_id"
   ```

   ```
   export TF_VAR_billing_account="your_billing_account_id"
   ```

1. Ensure that you are locally authenticated using gcloud:

   ```
   gcloud auth application-default login
   ```

1. With these settings in place, you can prepare a test project using Docker:

   ```
   cd terraform-docs-samples
   ```

   ```
   make docker_test_prepare
   ```

Sample Output:

```
Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

Outputs:

project_ids = [
  "ci-tf-samples-0-c5ab",
  "ci-tf-samples-1-f344",
  "ci-tf-samples-2-b5a7",
  "ci-tf-samples-3-6eda",
]
...
```

### Noninteractive Execution

Run `make -s docker_test_sample SAMPLE=${SAMPLE_NAME}` to test a sample
noninteractively. This will initialize, apply, verify and destroy the
specified sample.

`SAMPLE_NAME` is the name of the lowest most containing folder. For example, to test the sample in `/storage/new_bucket/main.tf`, use `SAMPLE=new_bucket`. (See [TestSample](/test/integration/sample_test.go) for implementation, [logic discussion](https://github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/issues/501#issuecomment-1894850047)).


Example:
```
make -s docker_test_sample SAMPLE=storage_new_bucket
```

Sample output:

```
 make -s docker_test_sample SAMPLE=storage_new_bucket
go: downloading github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-foundation-toolkit/infra/blueprint-test v0.3.0
...
=== RUN   TestSamples
TestSamples terraform.go:216: Loading env vars from setup ../setup
...
2022/10/28 02:30:16 Running stage init
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket retry.go:91: terraform [init -upgrade=false]
...
2022/10/28 02:30:17 Running stage apply
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket retry.go:91: terraform [apply -input=false -auto-approve -lock=false]
...
2022/10/28 02:30:21 Running stage verify
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket cmd.go:103: Running terraform with args [plan -input=false -detailed-exitcode -lock=false]
...
2022/10/28 02:30:23 Running stage teardown
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket retry.go:91: terraform [destroy -auto-approve -input=false -lock=false]
...
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185: Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185:
--- PASS: TestSamples (17.12s)
    --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (13.95s)
PASS
ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     17.203s
```

### Interactive Execution

Interactive execution is useful if you want to iteratively test a sample
without destroying resources automatically.

1. Run `make docker_run` to start the testing Docker container in
   interactive mode and you should see the following prompt.

    Sample output:
    ```
    [root@... workspace]#
    ```

1. Navigate to the test directory `cd test/integration`.

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=init go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to initialize
    the sample to be tested. (Note: To reduce log verbosity, you can skip the `-v` option)

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=init go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    ...
    === RUN   TestSamples
    TestSamples 2022-10-28T02:24:48Z terraform.go:216: Loading env vars from setup ../setup
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket 2022-10-28T02:24:59Z command.go:185: Success! The configuration is valid.
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket 2022-10-28T02:24:59Z command.go:185:
    RUN_STAGE env var set to init
    Skipping stage apply
    RUN_STAGE env var set to init
    Skipping stage verify
    RUN_STAGE env var set to init
    Skipping stage teardown
    --- PASS: TestSamples (11.27s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (3.80s)
    ```

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=apply go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to apply
    the sample to be tested.

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=apply go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    === RUN   TestSamples
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185: Apply complete! Resources: 3 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
    ...
    RUN_STAGE env var set to apply
    Skipping stage verify
    RUN_STAGE env var set to apply
    Skipping stage teardown
    --- PASS: TestSamples (8.70s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (5.83s)
    PASS
    ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     8.784s
    ```

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=verify go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to verify
    the sample has been applied.

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=verify go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    === RUN   TestSamples
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185: No changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration.
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185:
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185: Terraform has compared your real infrastructure against your configuration
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket  command.go:185: and found no differences, so no changes are needed.
    2022/10/28 02:27:47 RUN_STAGE env var set to verify
    2022/10/28 02:27:47 Skipping stage teardown
    --- PASS: TestSamples (6.79s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (3.93s)
    PASS
    ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     6.864s
    ```

1. Run `RUN_STAGE=teardown go test -v -timeout 0 -run //${SAMPLE_NAME}` to destroy
   resources created by the sample.

    Sample output:
    ```
    RUN_STAGE=teardown go test -v -timeout 0 -run //storage_new_bucket
    === RUN   TestSamples
    ...
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185:
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185: Destroy complete! Resources: 3 destroyed.
    TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket command.go:185:
    --- PASS: TestSamples (8.49s)
        --- PASS: TestSamples/1/storage_new_bucket (5.65s)
    PASS
    ok      github.com/terraform-google-modules/terraform-docs-samples/test/integration     8.563s
    ```

[docker-engine]: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-engine
[google-cloud-sdk]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install
[make]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Make_(software)
